Feature rejected points log (#3109)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb/cloud/write-data/troubleshoot.md

list_title: Troubleshoot issues writing data
weight: 105
description: >
  Troubleshoot issues writing data. Find response codes for failed writes. Discover how writes fail, from exceeding rate or payload limits, to syntax errors and schema conflicts. Find suggestions to fix failures.
menu:
  influxdb_cloud:

>     name: Troubleshoot issues

Reviewer: typo on line 12? `nfluxdb/cloud/tags`

Learn how to handle and recover from errors when writing to InfluxDB.

- [Discover common failure scenarios](#discover-common-failure-scenarios)
- [Review HTTP status codes](#review-http-status-codes)
- [Troubleshoot failures](#troubleshoot-failures)

## Discover common failure scenarios

InfluxDB write requests may fail for a number of reasons.
Common failure scenarios that return an HTTP `4xx` or `5xx` error status code include the following:

> - Exceeded a rate limit.

Reviewer: maybe group line 30 and 36 (limits) or put them next to each other?

> - Exceeded a rate limit.

Author: ```suggestion
- Exceeded a rate limit or size limit.
```

- API token was invalid.
- Client or server reached a timeout threshold.
- Data was not formatted correctly.
- Data did not conform to the [explicit bucket schema](/influxdb/cloud/organizations/buckets/bucket-schema/).

>   See how to troubleshoot specific [bucket schema errors](/influxdb/cloud/organizations/buckets/bucket-schema/#troubleshoot-errors).

Reviewer: we have the "troubleshoot failures" section describing what to do for rejected points---may be helpful to indicate what to do next for invalid API token, and lines 30-33? maybe 30-34 (if we didn't already provide suggestions for resolving non-conforming explicit bucket schema in referenced doc?)

> - Size of the data payload was too large.

Reviewer: @jstirnaman we're working on a new [InfluxDB Cloud limits doc](https://github.com/influxdata/docs-v2/pull/3355/files). Ideally, it'd be nice to link to this new doc with: "To learn more about InfluxDB Cloud limits, see..." prob for another issue/PR, unless that PR goes out first

Reviewer: may be more detail than in scope here? adding in case it makes sense to add within this context:

per @rickspencer3 [PR](https://github.com/influxdata/docs-v2/pull/3392/files), we may want to note:
_After 250 MB of data from a request payload is decompressed and written to InfluxDB, the remaining lines in the payload are not written. We recommend retrying the request with a smaller payload._

Author: ```suggestion
```

Writes may fail partially or completely even though InfluxDB returns an HTTP `2xx` status code for a valid request.
For example, a partial write may occur when InfluxDB writes points that conform to the schema of existing data, but rejects points that have the wrong data type in a field.

## Review HTTP status codes

InfluxDB uses conventional HTTP status codes to indicate the success or failure of a request.
Write requests return the following status codes:

- `204` **Success**: InfluxDB validated the request data format and accepted the data for writing to the bucket.
    {{% note %}}

> `204` doesn't indicate a successful write operation since writes are asynchronous. If some of your data did not write to the bucket, see how to [check for rejected points](#review-rejected-points).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`204` doesn't indicate a successful write operation given writes are asynchronous. If some of your data did not write to the bucket, see how to [check for rejected points](#review-rejected-points).
```

    {{% /note %}}

- `400` **Bad request**: The [line protocol](/influxdb/cloud/reference/syntax/line-protocol/) data in the request is malformed.
   The response body contains the first malformed line in the data. All request data is rejected and not written.
- `401` **Unauthorized**: May indicate one of the following:
  -  [`Authorization: Token` header](/influxdb/cloud/api-guide/api_intro/#authentication) is missing or malformed.
  - [API token](/influxdb/cloud/api-guide/api_intro/#authentication) value is missing from the header.
  - API token does not have sufficient permissions to write to the organization and bucket.
    For more information about token types and permissions, see [Manage API tokens](/influxdb/cloud/security/tokens/)
- `404` **Not found**: A requested resource (e.g. an organization or bucket) was not found.
  The response body contains the requested resource type, e.g. "organization", and resource name.

> - `413` **Request entity too large**: The payload exceeded the 50MB limit.

Reviewer 2: Maybe mention that this is 50MB of uncompressed data not compressed?

> - `413` **Request entity too large**: The request payload exceeded the size limit (50 MB uncompressed data).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `413` **Request entity too large**: The write request payload exceeded the size limit (**50 MB *uncompressed*** data or **250 MB *decompressed***).
```

Reviewer: InfluxDB supports 50MB of compressed data and 250MB of decompressed data per write request payload. The request exceeds these limits, resulting in a 413 `Request too large` error.  (TBD: do we distinguish exceeding compressed or decompressed issue in message?)

> - `422` **Unprocessible entity**: Request data is invalid. `code` and `message` in the response body provide details about the problem.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure that this error is possible in the write path. Probably worth fixing in another PR though, as it's not related to this one.

- Verify the timestamps match the [precision parameter](/influxdb/cloud/write-data/#timestamp-precision).
- Minimize payload size and network errors by [optimizing writes](/influxdb/cloud/write-data/best-practices/optimize-writes/).

## Troubleshoot rejected points

InfluxDB may have rejected points even if the HTTP request returned "Success".
InfluxDB logs rejected data points and associated errors to your organization's `_monitoring` bucket.

- [Review rejected points](#review-rejected-points)
  - [Find parsing errors](#find-parsing-errors)
  - [Find data type conflicts and schema rejections](#find-data-type-conflicts-and-schema-rejections)
- [Resolve data type conflicts](#resolve-data-type-conflicts)
- [Resolve explicit schema rejections](#resolve-explicit-schema-rejections)

### Review rejected points

To get a log of rejected points, query the [`rejected_points` measurement](/influxdb/cloud/reference/internals/system-buckets/#_monitoring-bucket-schema) in your organization's `_monitoring` bucket.
To more quickly locate `rejected_points`, keep the following in mind:

> - If your batch contains single lines with multiple [fields](/influxdb/cloud/reference/syntax/line-protocol/#field-set), InfluxDB logs an entry for each point (each unique field) that failed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- If your line protocol batch contains single lines with multiple [fields](/influxdb/cloud/reference/syntax/line-protocol/#field-set), InfluxDB logs an entry for each point (each unique field) that is rejected.
```

The `rejected_points` entry contains the following reason:

| Reason                              | Meaning                                                                                              |
|:------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `field type mismatch with schema`   | The point has the same measurement as a configured schema and they have different field value types. |

Consider a bucket that has the following `airSensors` [`explicit bucket schema`](/influxdb/cloud/organizations/buckets/bucket-schema/):

```json
{
 "name": "airSensors",
 "columns": [
   {
     "name": "time",
     "type": "timestamp"
   },
   {
     "name": "sensorId",
     "type": "tag"
   },
   {
     "name": "temperature",
     "type": "field",
     "dataType": "float"
   },
   {
     "name": "humidity",
     "type": "field",
     "dataType": "float"
   },
   {
     "name": "co",
     "type": "field",
     "dataType": "float"
   }
 ]
}
```

> The following [line protocol](/influxdb/cloud/reference/syntax/line-protocol) data has an `airSensors` measurement, a `sensorId` tag, and three fields (`temperature`, `humidity`, and `co`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following [line protocol](/influxdb/cloud/reference/syntax/line-protocol/) data has an `airSensors` measurement, a `sensorId` tag, and three fields (`temperature`, `humidity`, and `co`).
```

- Verify the timestamps match the [precision parameter](/influxdb/cloud/write-data/#timestamp-precision).
- Minimize payload size and network errors by [optimizing writes](/influxdb/cloud/write-data/best-practices/optimize-writes/)

### Review rejected points

InfluxDB may have rejected points even if the HTTP request returned "Success".
To get a log of rejected data points, query the [`rejected_points` measurement](/influxdb/cloud/reference/internals/system-buckets/#_monitoring-bucket-schema) in your organization's `_monitoring` bucket.

```js
from(bucket: "_monitoring")
  |> range(start:-1h)
  |> filter(fn:(r) =>
    r._measurement == "rejected_points"
  )

> ```

Reviewer 2: It might be worth selecting on the field `count` here, as some rejected points errors (parsing errors in particular) also add an `error` measurement with some textual information about the failure.

InfluxDB returns `rejected_points` log entries.
Each entry contains the `bucket` where the rejection occurred and a `reason` for the rejection.

> ```sh

Reviewer 2: `sh` doesn't seem like a very appropriate style for line-protocol data.

rejected_points,bucket=YOUR_BUCKET,field=YOUR_FIELD,gotType=Float,
  measurement=YOUR_MEASUREMENT,reason=type\ conflict\ in\ batch\ write,
  wantType=Integer count=1i 1627906197091972750
```

#### Troubleshoot field type conflicts

Field type conflicts occur if you attempt to write different data types to a field.
For example, you attempt to write `string` data to an `int` field.

{{% note %}}

> If you want to reject batches that contain points with field type conflicts, use an [explicit bucket schema](/influxdb/cloud/organizations/buckets/bucket-schema/). Explicit bucket schemas reject the write request and return an HTTP `400 Bad Request` status code and a JSON response body like the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to reject batches that contain points with field type conflicts, use an [explicit bucket schema](/influxdb/cloud/organizations/buckets/bucket-schema/). Explicit bucket schemas reject the points in the write request that don't conform to the schema, and return an HTTP `400 Bad Request` status code and a JSON response body like the following:
```

Author: @rogpeppe The distinction here was the reason for this paragraph - the last time I tested with an explicit bucket schema, it appeared to reject the request and the entire payload. Is that not true?

```json
{
  "code": "invalid",

>   "message": "partial write error (2 written): unable to parse 'air_sensor,service=S1,sensor=L1 temperature=\"90.5\",humidity=70.0 1632850122': schema: field type for field \"temperature\" not permitted by schema; got String but expected Float"

Reviewer 2: That message will shortly change to something more like this:

```
partial write error (2 accepted): 3/5 points rejected; first error: schema: field type for field \"temperature\" not permitted by schema; got String but expected Float
```

because we'll won't be stopping at the first point that fails schema validation.

Author: Created new issue.

}
```
{{% /note %}}

If InfluxDB rejects a point due to a [field type](/influxdb/cloud/reference/key-concepts/data-elements/#field-value) conflict, the rejected point log entry contains the following data elements:

| Name          | Value                                                                                                                                        |
|:------        |:-----                                                                                                                                        |
| `bucket`      | ID of the bucket that rejected the point.                                                                                                    |
| `measurement` | Measurement name of the point.                                                                                                               |
| `field`       | Name of the field that caused the rejection.                                                                                                 |
| `reason`      | Brief description of the problem. See [reasons for rejected points](#reasons-for-rejected-points)                                            |

> | `gotType`     | Received [field](/influxdb/cloud/reference/key-concepts/data-elements/#field-value) type: `Boolean`, `Float`, `Integer`, or `UnsignedInteger` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `gotType`     | Received [field](/influxdb/cloud/reference/key-concepts/data-elements/#field-value) type: `Boolean`, `String`, `Float`, `Integer`, or `UnsignedInteger` |
```

> | `wantType`    | Expected [field](/influxdb/cloud/reference/key-concepts/data-elements/#field-value) type: `Boolean`, `Float`, `Integer`, or `UnsignedInteger` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `wantType`    | Expected [field](/influxdb/cloud/reference/key-concepts/data-elements/#field-value) type: `Boolean`, `String`, `Float`, `Integer`, or `UnsignedInteger` |
```

> | `error`       | Additional error detail.                                                                                                                     |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `error`       | Additional error detail, if any.                                                                                                                     |
```

- Verify the timestamps match the [precision parameter](/influxdb/cloud/write-data/#timestamp-precision).
- Minimize payload size and network errors by [optimizing writes](/influxdb/cloud/write-data/best-practices/optimize-writes/)

### Review rejected points

InfluxDB may have rejected points even if the HTTP request returned "Success".
Your organization's `_monitoring` bucket logs rejected data points and any parsing errors associated with them.
To get a log of rejected points, query for the [`rejected_points` measurement](/influxdb/cloud/reference/internals/system-buckets/#_monitoring-bucket-schema) and the [`count` field](/influxdb/cloud/reference/internals/system-buckets/#_monitoring-bucket-schema) in your organization's `_monitoring` bucket.
Each entry has a `count` equal to `1`.

```js
from(bucket: "_monitoring")
  |> range(start: -1h)
  |> filter(fn: (r) => r._measurement == "rejected_points")

>   |> filter(fn: (r) => r["_field"] == "count")

Author: Same. I pasted from discussion thread without thinking about it.

```

InfluxDB returns `rejected_points` entries that contain the `bucket` where the rejection occurred and the `reason` for the rejection.
If a parsing error occurred, the entry will contain an `error` field with details.

> ```text
> rejected_points,bucket=YOUR_BUCKET,field=YOUR_FIELD,gotType=Float, \
>   measurement=YOUR_MEASUREMENT,reason=type\ conflict\ in\ batch\ write, \
>   wantType=Integer count=1i 1627906197091972750
> ```

Reviewer 3: Rather than line protocol, I wonder if it'd be better to show the table that would get returned from a query:

```suggestion
| _time                | _measurement    | measurement      | reason                       | bucket      | field      | gotType | wantType | _field | _value |
| :------------------- | :-------------- | :--------------- | :--------------------------- | :---------- | :--------- | :------ | :------- | :----- | -----: |
| 2021-08-02T12:09:57Z | rejected_points | YOUR_MEASUREMENT | type conflict in batch write | YOUR_BUCKET | YOUR_FIELD | Float   | Integer  | count  |      1 |
```

If the data you want to write contains multiple fields in a data point, InfluxDB creates a `rejected_points` entry for each [series](/influxdb/cloud/reference/key-concepts/data-elements/#series) that failed.
For example, the following line protocol data has an `airSensors` measurement and three fields (`temperature`, `humidity`, and `co`).

```
airSensors,sensorId=TLM0201 temperature=73.97,humidity=35.23,co=0.48 1637014074

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

```

> If you try to write this data to a bucket that has the [`explicit` type](/influxdb/cloud/organizations/buckets/bucket-schema/) and doesn't have an `airSensors` schema, the `/api/v2/write` InfluxDB API returns an error and the following data:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you try to write this data to a bucket with an [explicit schema](/influxdb/cloud/organizations/buckets/bucket-schema/) that doesn't include the `airSensors` measurement, the `/api/v2/write` InfluxDB API returns an error and the following data:
```

Author: @sanderson, that's not exactly accurate. "bucket schemas" are actually *measurement schemas*.

```json
{
  "code": "invalid",
  "message": "3 out of 3 points rejected (check rejected_points in your _monitoring bucket for further information)"
}
```

InfluxDB logs three `rejected_points` entries, one for each field.

| _measurement    | _field | _value | field       | measurement | reason                            |
|:----------------|:-------|:-------|:------------|:------------|:----------------------------------|
| rejected_points | count  | 1      | humidity    | airSensors  | measurement not allowed by schema |
| rejected_points | count  | 1      | co          | airSensors  | measurement not allowed by schema |
| rejected_points | count  | 1      | temperature | airSensors  | measurement not allowed by schema |

> Buckets that have the [`explicit type`] use [explicit bucket schemas](/influxdb/cloud/organizations/buckets/bucket-schema/) and reject data that don't conform to one of the configured schemas.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Buckets with the [`explicit type`] use [explicit bucket schemas](/influxdb/cloud/organizations/buckets/bucket-schema/) and reject data that doesn't conform to one of the configured schemas.
```

> For example, a request to write an `air_sensor` point that doesn't conform to the `air_sensor` measurement schema returns an HTTP `400 Bad Request` status code and the following response body:
> ```json

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, a request to write an `airSensor` point that doesn't conform to the `airSensor` measurement schema returns an HTTP `400 Bad Request` status code and the following response body:

```json
```
